- [Data Types](#data-types)
	- [Primitive Data Types](#primitive-data-types)
	- [Non-Primitive Data Types](#non-primitive-data-types)
- [Number](#Number)
- [String](#String)
- [Boolean](#Boolean)
    - [Truthy values](#Truthy-values)
    - [Falsy values](#Falsy-values)
- [Undefined](#undefined)
- [Null](#null)
- [Symbol](#Symbol)

# Data Types

Data or values have data types. Data types describe the characteristics of data. Data types can be divided into two:

1. Primitive data types
2. Non-primitive data types(Object References)

## Primitive Data Types

Primitive data types in JavaScript include:

 1. Numbers - Integers, floats
 2. Strings - Any data under single quote, double quote or backtick quote
 3. Booleans - true or false value
 3. Undefined - a declared variable without a value
 4. Null - empty value or no value 
 5. Symbol - A unique value that can be generated by Symbol constructor

Non-primitive data types in JavaScript includes:

1. Objects
2. Arrays

Now, let us see what exactly primitive and non-primitive data types mean.
*Primitive* data types are ``immutable(non-modifiable)`` data types. Once a primitive data type is created we cannot modify it.

**Example:**

```js
let word = 'JavaScript'
```

If we try to modify the string stored in variable *word*, JavaScript should raise an error. Any data type under a single quote, double quote, or backtick quote is a string data type.

```js
word[0] = 'Y'
```

This expression does not change the string stored in the variable *word*. So, we can say that strings are not modifiable or in other words immutable.
Primitive data types are compared by its values. Let us compare different data values. See the example below:

```js
let numOne = 3
let numTwo = 3

console.log(numOne == numTwo)      // true

let js = 'JavaScript'
let py = 'Python'

console.log(js == py)             //false 

let lightOn = true
let lightOff = false

console.log(lightOn == lightOff) // false
```

## Non-Primitive Data Types

*Non-primitive* data types are modifiable or mutable. We can modify the value of non-primitive data types after it gets created.
Let us see by creating an array. An array is a list of data values in a square bracket. Arrays can contain the same or different data types. Array values are referenced by their index. In JavaScript array index starts at zero. I.e., the first element of an array is found at index zero, the second element at index one, and the third element at index two, etc.

```js
let nums = [1, 2, 3]
nums[0] = 10

console.log(nums)  // [10, 2, 3]
```

As you can see, an array, which is a non-primitive data type is mutable. Non-primitive data types cannot be compared by value. Even if two non-primitive data types have the same properties and values, they are not strictly equal.

```js
let nums = [1, 2, 3]
let numbers = [1, 2, 3]

console.log(nums == numbers)  // false

let userOne = {
name:'Asabeneh',
role:'teaching',
country:'Finland'
}

let userTwo = {
name:'Asabeneh',
role:'teaching',
country:'Finland'
}

console.log(userOne == userTwo) // false
```

**Rule of thumb** we do not compare non-primitive data types. Do not compare arrays, functions, or objects.
Non-primitive values are referred to as reference types, because they are being compared by reference instead of value. Two objects are only strictly equal if they refer to the same underlying object.

```js
let nums = [1, 2, 3]
let numbers = nums

console.log(nums == numbers)  // true

let userOne = {
name:'Asabeneh',
role:'teaching',
country:'Finland'
}

let userTwo = userOne

console.log(userOne == userTwo)  // true
```

# Number

Number represents integer and floating numbers (decimals and exponentials).

**Example**

```
const number1 = 3;
const number2 = 3.433;
const number3 = 3e5 // 3 * 10^5
```

A number type can also be +Infinity, -Infinity, and NaN (not a number).

**Example**

```
const number1 = 3/0;
console.log(number1); // Infinity

const number2 = -3/0;
console.log(number2); // -Infinity

// strings can't be divided by numbers
const number3 = "abc"/3; 
console.log(number3);  // NaN
```

# String

`String` is used to store text. In JavaScript, strings are surrounded by quotes:

Single quotes: `'Hello'`
Double quotes: `"Hello"`
Backticks: `Hello`

**Example**

//strings example
const name = 'ram';
const name1 = "hari";
const result = `The names are ${name} and ${name1}`;


Single quotes and double quotes are practically the same and you can use either of them.

Backticks are generally used when you need to include variables or expressions into a string. This is done by wrapping variables or expressions with` ${variable or expression}` as shown above.

# Boolean

A boolean data type represents one of the two values:_true_ or _false_. Boolean value is either true or false. The use of these data types will be clear when you start the comparison operator. Any comparisons return a boolean value which is either true or false.

**Example: Boolean Values**

```js
let isLightOn = true
let isRaining = false
let isHungry = false
let isMarried = true
let truValue = 4 > 3    // true
let falseValue = 4 < 3  // false
```

We agreed that boolean values are either true or false.

## Truthy values

- All numbers(positive and negative) are truthy except zero
- All strings are truthy except an empty string ('')
- The boolean true

## Falsy values

- 0
- 0n
- null
- undefined
- NaN
- the boolean false
- '', "", ``, empty string

It is good to remember those truthy values and falsy values. In later section, we will use them with conditions to make decisions.

# Undefined

The undefined data type represents value that is not assigned. If a variable is declared but the value is not assigned, then the value of that variable will be undefined

**Example**

```js
var name;
console.log(name); // undefined 
```

It is also possible to explicitly assign a variable value undefined.

**Example**

```js
let name = undefined;
console.log(name); // undefined
```

`Note`: It is recommended not to explicitly assign undefined to a variable. Usually, null is used to assign 'unknown' or 'empty' value to a variable.


# Null

In JavaScript, null is a special value that represents empty or unknown value.

**Example**

```js
let empty = null
console.log(empty) // -> null , means no value
```

`Note:` null is not the same as NULL or Null.

# Symbol

This data type was introduced in a newer version of JavaScript (from ES2015).

A value having the data type Symbol can be referred to as a symbol value. Symbol is an immutable primitive value that is unique.

**Example**

```js
// two symbols with the same description

const value1 = Symbol('hello');
const value2 = Symbol('hello');
```

Though value1 and value2 both contain 'hello', they are different as they are of the Symbol type.
